Now, let us consider two questions:
What do we have in common with Noah?
And how does his example apply to us?
Well, like Noah, we fully trust
that Jehovah will fulfill
his promise to end all wickedness
and that he will do so
at exactly the right time.
Now, what helped Noah
to build his trust in Jehovah’s promises?
One factor that must have helped him
was his upbringing.
Now, to confirm that statement,
we will consider two of Noah’s relatives,
and no doubt they had a big influence on him.
First, Noah must have received
a godly upbringing from his father, Lamech.
The Insight  book states with certainty:
“Lamech had faith in God.”
But how does the Bible indicate
that Lamech (and likely also his wife)
had strong faith in Jehovah?
One indication is found in Genesis chapter 5.
So let’s consider that chapter for a moment.
Now, if you will take the time,
perhaps later today,
to read verses 6-31 in chapter five,
you will see that these verses contain
a list of eight fathers and eight sons.
The list starts with the father Seth
and his son, Enosh
and ends with the father Lamech
and his son Noah.
Now, in this list,
Lamech stands out from all the other fathers.
Why so?
Of all eight fathers,
only Lamech provides a reason
for why he named his son
in the way that he did.
And we read that reason
in verses 28 and 29.
There it says:
“Lamech lived for 182 years
“and then became father to a son.
He named him Noah.”
Now, let’s pause here for a moment.
The footnote gives us
the likely meaning of the name Noah
as “Rest” or “Consolation.”
But then comes the most significant part.
Lamech goes on to explain
why he gave his son the name Consolation.
In verse 29, Lamech adds:
“This one will bring us comfort
[Or, as the footnote says, “relief.”]
“from our labor
and from the painful toil of our hands
because of the ground
that Jehovah has cursed.”
Now, note the expressions
that Lamech used:
“painful toil,”
‘the ground that Jehovah cursed.’
So Lamech’s words show that he looked back
to what had happened in the Garden of Eden.
In fact, he used the very same words
—cursed, ground, pain—
that Jehovah had used
when he told Adam after the rebellion:
“Cursed is the ground on your account.
In pain you will eat its produce.”
So by repeating Jehovah’s words,
Lamech indicated that he realized
that the rebellion of Adam and Eve
had sentenced humans to pain
from which there seemed no relief or comfort.
Indeed, Lamech had meditated
on Jehovah’s words.
But Lamech looked back
not only to a dark time
but also forward to a bright time.
In the first part of verse 29,
he said about his son:
“This one will bring us comfort
from our labor.”
So clearly,
Lamech hoped that his son Noah
would be instrumental
in bringing relief to man’s situation.
Now, Lamech’s words were much more
than a warm sentiment
expressed by a father to his son.
What is the real significance
of Lamech’s words about Noah?
The Insight  book further states
that ‘Lamech’s words
were an inspired revelation
of God’s purpose and will.’
So Lamech’s words expressed
Jehovah’s thoughts and feelings about Noah.
Now, Noah’s father died
five years before the Flood,
but his prophecy came true.
When did it happen?
The Watchtower  of 2017 states:
‘Jehovah inspired Lamech
to utter a prophecy about Noah,
and that prophecy
came true after the Flood.’
When exactly did it come true?
We find the answer at Genesis 8:21.
Shortly after the Flood,
when Noah offered burnt offerings to God:
“Jehovah said in his heart:
“‘Never again
will I curse the ground on man’s account.’”
Indeed, Noah had lived up
to the meaning of the name
that he had received from his father.
Because of Noah’s faith in action,
Jehovah used him to bring relief.
Now, how does this account of Noah
and his father apply to us?
Well, like Noah in the past,
many of us have had the privilege
to be raised by godly parents.
And we know
that by serving Jehovah wholeheartedly,
we bring great joy
to the hearts of our parents.
They are happy
that we serve at Assembly Halls,
at RTOs, at construction projects,
at maintenance sites,
at Bethel,
and in the local congregations.
And much like Lamech did in the past,
godly parents today pray to Jehovah
that the sacred service
that their children give at these locations
may indeed bring comfort and relief to many.
And for those of us whose godly parents
have already fallen asleep in death
—well, we long for the time
when they will come back to life in Paradise
and we can relate to them
that we used our life fully
in Jehovah’s service.
How happy they will be when they hear
that the godly training that they gave us
helped us to build
our faith in God’s promises
and to survive Armageddon!
And likewise, we can imagine
that when Noah is raised to life in Paradise,
he will long for the moment
when he can tell his father
how he endured
till the end of that old system
and survived the Flood.
And just think how happy Lamech will be
when he hears that his son
did indeed bring comfort
and relief to many.
Now, besides Lamech,
who is the second relative
who must have strengthened
Noah’s trust in Jehovah’s promises
and in his protection
and in his assurance to protect his servants?
Well here is a clue.
Both Noah and his second relative
are described
in exactly the same way in the Bible.
In Genesis chapter 6, we read:
“Noah walked with the true God.”
In Genesis chapter 5, we read:
‘Enoch walked with the true God.’
Enoch was Noah’s great-grandfather.
Now, since Jehovah
moved the writer of Genesis
to describe these two men
in exactly the same manner,
it indicates that Noah had much in common
with his great-grandfather.
Now, it’s true that Noah never met Enoch
because Enoch died before Noah was born.
But Noah’s father’s life
overlapped for more than 100 years
with that of Enoch.
So we can imagine that Lamech
must have told stories to Noah
about his grandfather:
how Enoch prophesied courageously
while surrounded by ungodly people,
how these people hated Enoch
to the point that they wanted to kill him.
But despite being in danger,
as we read at Genesis 5:22:
“Enoch continued to walk with the true God.”
And Jehovah protected Enoch.
Well, as Noah listened to these stories
and reflected on Enoch’s faith and courage,
his desire to follow in Enoch’s footsteps
no doubt grew stronger and stronger.
In fact, Noah’s faith became so strong
that he continued to walk
with God for 600 years
until the time of the Flood
—in spite of the ungodly
and violent people around him.
Now, just as Noah
must have been strengthened
by the faith of his forefathers,
some of us may be
the third or the fourth generation
in our family who serve Jehovah.
If that’s the case with you,
your parents or grandparents
likely told you stories
about your relatives who served Jehovah
—perhaps way back in the time
of Brother Rutherford or even earlier.
And as you listened to these stories
about your faithful relatives,
your desire to walk in their footsteps
grew stronger and stronger.
What, though,
if we are not part of a family
with a long line of Witnesses?
Well, we too
are encouraged by the examples
of our brothers and sisters
of previous generations
when we read their life stories
as found in The Watchtower.
As we learn
about their courage and endurance,
their stories strengthen our faith.
Indeed, the examples
of God’s servants in the past
as recorded in the Bible,
in our family history,
or in the life stories
found in The Watchtower
help us to trust fully
in the fulfillment of Jehovah’s promises.
In turn,
that trust strengthens us to do what?
To imitate Noah and walk with God
—not just now but forever.